We have discussed the options for the development of a home network, the strategy of production.
And now, within the framework of technology development, we will consider how to choose our intermediaries,
since we have seen that one of the big mistakes is the wrong choice of intermediaries,
because the product is not competent, not clear, without calculations.
Let's take a look. The slide shows the factors that affect the choice of intermediaries,
and we will now consider them.
The first characteristic of a product that affects the choice of intermediaries is the shelf life of the product.
Why does it affect? In this case, you need to choose intermediaries that have warehouses,
that have refrigeration equipment, an automation system, a logistics system,
so that you can deliver the product on time. This limits your choice of intermediaries.
Not all companies have such resources.
The next factor is the technological and technical complexity of the product.
As I said, for technically complex products, you need companies that are specialists in this.
If your product is not presented by specialists, for example, you go to the medical equipment market
and work with a company that has no idea of medical terms, specializations at all.
It will be very difficult for them to communicate with doctors and explain to them what is the best product.
The next point is an innovative product. We have already talked about it.
I drew your attention to the fact that it is the most difficult to sell a new product,
and not every company will do it.
Therefore, choose a limited number of intermediaries who can present your product competently,
and most importantly, agree to do it.
A heavy and oversized product.
This is where the logistics system comes in.
This is the first point.
And the second point is the availability of storage spaces.
Not every company has a resource for storing and transporting complex and oversized products.
Therefore, one of the limitations will be the weight and dimensions of the product.
A standardized product.
It is easiest to sell and choose intermediaries for this.
These are mostly dealers who sell products to competing companies, including yours.
The sales system will be the cheapest here.
Because you don't need to look for specialized companies,
you just need to go through the market and see who does it better.
A wide range of products.
A line.
If you have a certain line developed in a trading brand,
and it is wide enough, not every company will agree to take the whole line.
What do companies usually say?
We don't need a large range, because not all products in this line are sold,
and not all are of interest to the client.
Yes, it may be so, but there is a certain dependence.
If you represent not a line, but certain positions,
one or two buyers have an opinion that there is no choice,
and they do not make a choice.
Therefore, there must be a certain range of products.
And the price of a single product.
Of course, this is important, because some companies specialize in the sale of exclusive products.
Someone specializes in the sale of low-priced products,
and someone specializes in the sale of medium-priced products.
I want to say that this is a very large specificity.
A company that is focused on the low-priced goods market
cannot supply exclusive products.
It will not even be taken seriously on the market.
Therefore, the price very well determines the category and qualification of the intermediary
that will work with your product.
The next factor that we will consider is the characteristics of the company itself.
The company that will work with your product.
What is the first factor?
The first is the company's goals.
What is the goal?
It can be the development of your range,
or becoming a logistics operator,
or working with several brands.
The task here is to understand whether your goals and the goals of this company coincide or not.
And here, of course, they must be in the same direction,
otherwise your product will be completely out of place in this company.
The financial capabilities of the company are a very important factor.
Because if the financial capabilities are limited, what will happen?
You will have a permanent debitory debt,
because the product cannot be paid.
Or there will be a limitation on promotion,
because there is no money for promotion of the product.
Or there will be a delay in payment of transport services,
and the goods cannot be delivered.
Or there will be an illiterate logistics warehouse,
and a lot of problems that are behind it.
Therefore, the financial stability of the company is a very important factor,
and this, fortunately, can be checked.
The next factor that must be taken into account is the assortment.
The assortment is based on your product category.
If the company already has a full assortment,
then it is not a fact that your product will occupy a key position in this company.
You should always look at how many manufacturers the intermediary company works with.
It is believed that there should be no more than 10-15 manufacturers,
and if there are 40, 50 or 80 of them, then it is not worth working with this company.
Your product will be lost in a huge assortment of this company
and will never occupy a leading position.
Unless, of course, it is some kind of know-how on the market.
The next point is the need for control and the possibility of control.
Because not every company provides information about itself.
But here is the question.
If it does not provide information about itself, then should you work with it?
If the company has something to hide, is it good for you?
The next factors that we will consider are the characteristics of the market.
How much does the market affect the choice of intermediaries?
What are the most important factors here?
The first is, of course, the size of the market, its capacity.
How much can you sell where you want to organize your intermediaries?
This is a very important factor.
If you find only one or two clients, or three, then it is certainly not a sale.
Is it worth creating a revenue network for such sales?
Therefore, before creating a revenue network,
you need to assess the capacity of this region, or this industry, or this client group.
We will see how to do it.
Geographical scatter.
Of course, it is important how far you will need to deliver goods.
How often can transport go there?
How will you deliver this product?
All this is important so that the product is constantly presented in this revenue network.
Otherwise, what is the point of developing it?
The volume of purchases on this market.
If we look at the market capacity, then how much sales are possible, we assess.
And the volume of purchases, how many people have the opportunity to buy this product,
how many of them will be able to buy it.
And the main thing is that this characteristic is assessed in the monetary equivalent, not in the artificial one.
Another point is the nature of demand, seasonality.
This must be taken into account, because each product in each region can have its own specifics.
Imagine you sell scooters or motorcycles.
And one thing is that you sell them in the north,
and you can ride them for two months a year.
Or this is the Krasnodar Territory, where it is warm, and winter lasts for a maximum of three months.
And all the other nine months you can easily sell your product.
That is why you need to take into account the seasonality, how much seasonality affects this market.
Do you need an intermediary here in this case?
So, taking into account all these factors, of course, you need to build a revenue network,
choose your intermediaries.
In the workbook, you can see the block of the scheme for choosing the distribution channels.
There you can recheck yourself, if you already have a revenue network,
whether you have organized it correctly,
or if you have a new product, then you can determine which system is best for selling your product.
Now we will consider the method of assessing clients.
The method of assessing clients is related to the point that we talked about.
It is very important to determine your intermediaries at the very first stage and assess them constantly.
In the workbook, you have an example.
This is a method of assessment, in which an assessment is carried out according to each criterion,
a balance, and a weight coefficient is set.
How does the method work?
The first thing we do is clarify the criteria, because for each market the criteria can be specific.
In the workbook, you will see the basic things that are there,
but then you must adapt it to your company, to your market,
because you may have specific criteria for assessment.
Then an expert group is formed.
The expert group consists of the following specialists.
The first is the sales managers, the middle managers, the sales managers,
supervisors, the commercial director, that is, those who are directly connected with the clients.
The second group of experts is the marketers.
They must be involved in order to assess the clients.
Why? Because if all this is given to the merchants, what will they get?
After all, they all have some kind of personal relationship with these companies.
And the assessment, if it is carried out only on the one hand, will be somewhat subjective.
That is why it is desirable that the marketers are present during the assessment in the same way.
An expert group of 7-9 people is formed and points are given according to each criterion.
The points are given from 1 to 10.
One is the minimum point, 10 is the maximum.
The points are given by each expert individually.
Then the expert group determines the weight coefficients.
What is it?
It determines the weight of each criterion, which, in the general opinion, in the opinion of the majority,
is the most important when assessing.
That is, regardless of the companies, but the general ones.
For example, for each situation, the development of the market will be important for its own criteria.
And every time the weight coefficient will change.
That is why the expert group determines the weight coefficient.
In total, this can be done by 1.
And, accordingly, the weight coefficients will be broken.
What is done next?
Next, the points of each expert are taken and averaged.
Then you multiply the points by the weight according to each criterion.
And then you add up and calculate the average arithmetic.
The average arithmetic gives you the key to this client, to the assessment of this client.
The key says the following.
We have an assessment divided into 4 groups.
If your client is in the first group, then you just need to refuse the service of this intermediary.
If in the second group, then, in general, this is a standard client,
but things are not going very well, so you need to check the weak points of this client and try to change them.
If something changes, great.
If not, then we also refuse.
But gradually, not immediately.
We are looking for a replacement and refuse.
The third group is a group of optimal intermediaries,
who work well, are stable, standard, give you a good enough effect.
And for them, a standard package of various additional services.
Service, warranty, technical, maybe some kind of support.
Standard intermediaries, that is, to maintain relations.
And the fourth group is the best intermediaries, you can say the gold ones,
who give you the most turnover, work best with you,
and additional preferences.
That is, something better than others, so that they feel this support.
If they do not feel it, then, accordingly, they can leave.
If they leave, you will lose a lot.
Therefore, here are constructive relations and constant preferences.
This is such an assessment, it will help you to optimize the sales system.
When we conducted such an assessment for the first time, the situation was very ambiguous.
And our salespeople reacted very badly to the fact that they had to refuse someone.
They were outraged and said that this was their job,
that they had been establishing relations for a very long time.
But after that, of course, we could not insist on this, it was our recommendation.
But after we made the decision to refuse, everything turned out very well,
because additional resources were not spent on ineffective intermediaries.
And this is calls, business trips, transport logistics, and everything else.
The work of the department has become more effective.
Therefore, strive for such a group of intermediaries to be minimal.
Now we will look at two methods that I promised to consider.
This is the first method, the search for new clients by industry.
According to the previous method, you have rejected some of the clients,
now you need something in return.
Let's look for new clients.
The first method is to search by industry, and the second method is to consider by regions.
The method of searching for new clients by industry.
When is it applicable?
It is applicable when your product is specific.
For example, medical equipment.
You can't sell it to anyone.
You sell it to intermediaries who work with medical institutions, right?
Or directly to medical institutions.
Or, an example I will give is a chromatography.
A chromatography is a device that decomposes gas and liquid mediums into components,
into chemical elements.
Where is it used?
It is used in medical expertise, in sanitary and epidemiological supervision,
in alcohol companies, in the oil and gas industry, in the oil and chemical industry.
That is, there are many applications.
At the time when we used this method, our chromatography was sold in the amount of 50-60 pieces per year.
And mostly, these were budget organizations.
Here is medical expertise, sanitary and epidemiological supervision.
We worked with them.
Everything was stable, but very little.
Naturally, the question arose, how can we do this to sell more?
Because the device was in the top part of our positions.
Let's turn to the method.
It is presented on the slide.
The first thing that is done is the analysis of the product nomenclature.
By company.
What is it for?
To select the key positions, the top positions.
We must always optimize resources.
Therefore, our task is to choose the main one.
And first, for the main product, find new clients.
And not to do it for the whole product at once.
For the sake of optimization, we choose the top range.
The next thing we do is to analyze the industry markets.
That is, which markets we can sell to.
And which of them are the most profitable or promising from our point of view.
So, just by chromatography, we realized that there is still the oil and gas industry, the oil and chemical industry.
For some reason, we have not worked on it yet.
We decided to go this way.
The next thing we did, and this is the next step in the method,
is to go to the industry leader with a favorable offer.
Why the leader?
You know, it is always easier to start your activity with the leader.
The image of the leader is very strong.
New products are listened to, and any product you want to offer can enter your market faster.
That is, you will reduce the time.
And time is also money.
So, what did we do, according to my example, with the chromatography?
We just found a person sitting on the information streams.
We turned to the Gazprom Institute,
where there was a person collecting all the requests from the oil and gas industry.
This person gave us some information that there is such a plant, Nizhnyakamsk Oil and Gas.
This is almost a city plant, it is a huge plant, there are buses with stops inside.
That is, it is a very large production, and it is dangerous for human life.
People work in special clothes, in chemical-proof suits with gas masks, and so on.
That is, production is really very dangerous there.
The company's leader decided to automate the process to secure his people.
That is, in order to prevent people from controlling the process,
he decided to put chromatographers there,
so that they would take the information and send it to the central control panel,
where a person would already sit and control the situation.
But there was one problem.
There were a lot of chromatographers on the market, like any other production.
But they could not make a choice. Why?
They needed a very simple device that simply measures and distributes gas or liquid into components.
And all the devices presented on the market had additional functions, additional services.
But, as we know, there is nothing free,
so additional functions and additional services required additional money.
It's like a mobile phone.
Before, we bought a phone just to make a call,
and now we have a video camera, an MP3 player,
I don't know, there will be a TV soon, and so on.
There are a lot of other functions that have nothing to do with the main thing.
Here, it's exactly the same.
Here, they were looking for a simple device,
no one agreed to simplify it,
and they needed such a company.
The next step we took was to establish personal contacts.
We went to this enterprise and asked them what requirements were necessary for the device
that they wanted to put into their automatic process.
We were sent the requirements, we consulted with our technologists, designers,
and they said, yes, we can simplify the device without any problems, it's not difficult to do,
yes, it will cost a little less, but it will not be a disadvantage for our company,
because the number that this company requested was huge, it was 600 devices.
At the same time, as I said, we sold 50-60 a year.
That is, it was an order for many years.
Naturally, our designers, technologists, our specialists did everything possible,
presented the device, and then the next step was the presentation to the industry.
That is, we came to the enterprise, agreed on a meeting,
presented our product, which we can put,
after which the contract for delivery was concluded,
and the company received a stable order for many years.
Here, in principle, is such an example.
If we did not receive such an order, we would go further,
that is, the full coverage of the industry, one company, then another, then a third,
until we find the number of clients that we need to ensure our sales plan, we go further.
Accordingly, when you have processed one industry, the next industry is processed,
the next one is attractive.
The next attractive one was the industry for the production of alcoholic beverages,
and we started working with it further.
Here is such a technique.
In principle, this is a sequence of logical steps that are necessary
in order to find a new client in the industry.
What is the advantage of this technique?
You can take it and schedule it in the form of a plan.
That is, you take it step by step, schedule it, set the deadlines,
and you get a plan for finding new clients in the industry.
This is already a document that can be signed and on which you need to work.
That's how.
Well, this was the method of finding new clients in industries.
Now let's see how it can be done in regions,
because products that have a specificity, of course, we are looking for clients in industries,
this is certainly.
Now we will consider the method of development of a home network in regions.
When is such a home network necessary?
When your product is standardized,
when it can be sold to non-specialized companies,
then, of course, the territorial development path is the most optimal.
The technique includes 11 points that must be completed in a sequence.
We will consider them now, you can see them on the slide.
The first thing we do when we need to develop a regional home network
is, of course, advertising in regional media and analysis of the reaction to advertising.
Why do we need to do this first?
When we advertise, we do not advertise our product,
but the opportunity for intermediaries to earn.
That is, we give an ad in the following text.
We offer wholesale deliveries of a certain product to a certain region.
Accordingly, this advertising will not cost you much.
There is one pattern.
Such advertising must be given at least three times,
because the regional press, of course, does not repeat itself.
And if your ad is only once,
there is no chance that all the intermediaries you need will see it, read it and respond.
Naturally, in order to wait for a response, additional time is necessary.
That is why this step is at the very beginning of the work.
The second step we take is to study the competitors' home networks.
Why do we need to do this?
Let's look.
Market commercial practice tells us that dealers usually sell goods to several companies at once.
That is why we can optimize our spending on creating a home network,
see how intermediaries work.
This is often very transparent.
You can ask your clients about it on the websites.
And, accordingly, see who to offer your product to.
Why not use the network that our competitors use?
The next step we take is to analyze the offers in the regional press.
We literally buy these newspapers, magazines, which print the ad and look.
Who works in this market?
Who represents this product in the market?
And, accordingly, we bring all this information to the database.
And the fourth point, which may not always work,
because circumstances are necessary here,
is the work at regional exhibitions and fairs.
Why is this very important?
Regional exhibitions and fairs give an opportunity to see who represents this product in this region.
And, moreover, who is the leader.
Because small companies are unlikely to participate in exhibitions.
These are too expensive events.
And those who are strong leaders will definitely be presented at this exhibition.
This is the first plus.
And the second.
Both companies that present this product in the market and you are in a neutral territory.
It is easiest to agree, it is easiest to collect information,
to introduce yourself to some clients, to conduct commercial intelligence,
and see who works best and who you like more, who you like less.
The database is completely collected from these four sources.
And the next point is just the creation of a database.
Why is it at this stage?
We will collect complete information about this region.
Who offers this product?
To then have the opportunity to choose.
And, moreover, if we choose and suddenly we do not have a deal,
we will be able to contact the database again,
without collecting additional information, without spending additional resources,
and again find and choose the intermediaries we need.
Therefore, the fifth step is to create, to form a database of intermediaries.
What do we do next?
We have a database.
And the next step is to start getting additional information,
which we need for subsequent assessment.
We collect additional information, bring it to the database.
Then the next step is to select intermediaries by method of assessment.
We have already considered the method.
It will only be necessary to work on your product,
on the specifics of your company, of your product.
Thus, from a large mass of intermediaries,
you choose those that are most relevant and acceptable to you.
And in parallel with this step, we develop a typical contract and a discount matrix.
For what?
In order for the intermediaries we select to make the appropriate offer.
After all, we cannot make our offer without a contract and a discount, right?
Therefore, two points, the selection of intermediaries and the development of a discount matrix,
and a typical contract are carried out in parallel.
The next step we take is to conclude short-term contracts for the supply of our products.
Why short-term?
We need to check how this intermediary works,
whether it can handle your product,
whether it can present it on the market,
how effective its household structure is for working with this product.
This step is necessary, although many people neglect it, unfortunately.
They immediately conclude exclusive contracts,
on volume, dealer contracts, then lose the market.
Therefore, it is necessary to take a test step first.
When we take a test step, we look at the consequences.
The next step is trial deliveries and additional selection of intermediaries.
We choose the best of them.
We don't need many of them.
Two or three for the region, and sometimes one.
Therefore, you have the opportunity to choose.
And then, with those whom you have chosen, there are long-term contacts.
And here, it may be necessary to rework the discount matrix,
to refine the terms of the contract,
taking into account the client's specifics,
his capabilities, his resources and his potential.
This is a method that also consists of logical steps.
What is its advantage?
You take this method,
you place these steps in a sequence,
determine the time,
and you get a plan for the development of the regional household network.
This method gives you the opportunity to develop a household policy in the region very well.
Well, we have considered two methods for finding new clients.
But before going to a particular market,
it is necessary to accurately assess what target segments are in these markets,
who our intermediaries will work with,
who our product is aimed at.
Here we will consider one of many methods of segmentation and selection of target segments.
What is a segment?
A segment is a group of buyers or a group of clients
who present the same requirements for your product.
Let's take, for example, the computer market.
The simplest example.
What groups of consumers exist in this market?
There are home users, those who buy a computer for home.
For example, for games, for watching movies, for working on the Internet, and so on.
There are computer users who are in research institutes.
There are users who buy computers for server organization, and so on.
What is the point?
Each group of these consumers has its own individual requirements for the product.
There are designers who need special requirements, special computers, special power,
their own requirements for RAM, and so on.
When we form individual proposals for each group, this is segmentation.
We target our product directly for this group of consumers.
This optimizes our resources.
Because we don't have to work on all target segments.
There is no resource optimization, no directionality in this case.
We lose resources and time.
Let's look at one of the methods, as I said.
In the slide and in the workbook, this method will be fully presented.
You can refer to it.
What is happening here?
We take segmentation criteria.
There are 10 of them.
Each criteria evaluates possible segments.
We select all possible segments on which we can offer our product.
Then, each criteria evaluates.
The evaluation is carried out on a 10-point scale.
From 1 to 10, 10 is the maximum, 1 is the minimum.
The weight criterion is also included.
The weight coefficient is very interesting here.
From 1 to 3, 1 is not a very important parameter, 2 is the middle parameter, and 3 is the high parameter.
The evaluation is carried out.
Then we multiply the weight by the weight.
And we also subtract the middle arithmetic.
Let's comment on the criteria for evaluation.
The first is the number of segments.
The number of segments is recommended to be evaluated in the money equivalent.
Because the number of clients will be incorrect.
Therefore, evaluate the possible sales volume in this segment.
The more, the better.
The availability of the segment is a very interesting criterion.
The availability of the segment should be considered not only from the point of view of territorial availability.
For example, to deliver an opportunity at a certain time.
For example, in the Krasnoyarsk Territory, we have territories where navigation only happens once every six months.
And there people also need products, household appliances, and everything.
Therefore, the availability of the segment is considered, first, from the point of view of territorial availability, and second, from the point of view of entry barriers.
Let's take, for example, the motorcycle market.
Scooters, motorcycles, and so on.
Now there is a program, a government, which implies the equipment of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Emergencies and the Russian Army with motorcycles.
Of course, a tender is announced.
To win this tender, it is necessary to make a huge effort.
And at the same time, an administrative resource is needed here.
Because without it, we simply will not be able to participate in the tender and not win it.
This is also an availability, this is an entry barrier to this market.
In the same way, you can evaluate the network difference.
To enter a particular network, we need to pay an entry bonus, we need to give an additional discount.
How acceptable is this for us, the company must decide.
This is also an entry barrier.
This is also the availability of the segment.
It is easiest to sell tents in a tray.
But maybe it's not so interesting in terms of turnover, right?
And the most difficult thing is to enter the network, but the turnover there, of course, will be incomparable.
The next parameter, the next criterion of assessment is the stability of the segment.
What is it?
This is related to seasonality.
Seasonality is when the volume of sales drops, then rises, but it is still there.
However, the stability of the segment can be estimated like this.
There is a market for half a year, and half a year it is not there at all.
That is, there is no sale at all.
This market is unstable.
And here, of course, the less stable the market, the worse for the company.
Why? Because it will have to form an additional assortment for production to ensure the stability of production and the stability of sales.
Let's take the example of mosquito cream.
When is it sold?
It starts selling in May, probably ends in September, and the rest of the year it just does not sell.
This is an unstable market.
Accordingly, companies that are engaged in this product have to look for some additional products
that will compensate for the shortcomings of production and sales.
The next criterion is profitability.
Profitability in the segment can be different.
Let's take and consider examples of profitability in the budget industry.
For example, we sell medical equipment in a budget clinic and in a commercial one.
So, where do you think the profitability will be higher?
Today, the situation is that the profitability is higher in the budget sector.
Because the money invested in the budget allows you to spend it without choosing a particular company.
But commercial companies count every penny and look where the offer is most profitable.
Therefore, paradoxically, the profitability in the commercial segment will be lower.
Naturally, the higher the profitability, the higher the point will be according to this criterion.
The next criterion is the level of competition.
Naturally, the higher the level of competition, the worse it is for the company,
because it will have to spend additional resources to compete with competitors.
But the evaluation of competition is also ambiguous.
What do you think is better?
When there are many competitors and they are medium or small.
For example, there are 20-30 competitors in this segment, but they are of medium size or small.
Or when there are only 3 competitors, but they are large.
Of course, it is more difficult to enter the market where there are fewer competitors, but they are large.
Why? Because they also set entry barriers,
they are more likely to fall into a conspiracy and prevent other companies from entering the market.
For example, I can give a telecommunications market, not the entire market, but the mobile communication market.
You know, 3 main players are MTS, Vimble.com and Megafon.
And these 3 players actually hardly let other companies enter this market.
Actually, they are the largest, and others cannot get in there well.
And this situation will continue for some time.
Therefore, the higher the competition, the lower the score.
Here the characteristic will be inverse.
The next point is protection from competition.
Protection from competition is the presence of at least one competitive advantage.
Remember what a competitive advantage is?
This is the difference at least some from your competitor.
If you have it, if you can position yourself in this way,
consider that there is a direct road to this market.
If your product is so standardized that there is no difference,
come up with it, create an additional service, additional services,
something else that will additionally distinguish you from competitors.
I will give an example here.
The situation in the air conditioner market.
When we were developing a home air conditioning system,
we had the same situation.
It was very difficult for us to enter the market.
The product was practically standardized.
And we thought how to stand out from the general mass of the strongest competitors and foreign manufacturers.
And what did we come up with?
We created an additional service for our intermediaries.
They really liked it.
What is this additional service?
We asked our intermediaries, what worries you in our product?
Why are you afraid to work with it?
What did they say?
We do not know its quality, we do not know how it fails, and so on.
We know that the quality of foreign manufacturers is high.
And we know nothing about your device, about your product.
And words are just words, because the product is new on the market.
Thus, we offered them to create an exchange fund.
That is, 10% of the volume of the delivery, we offered additional air conditioners for free,
on the terms of responsible storage.
For what?
So that if at least one device fails, they can instantly replace it,
without thinking that you need to send it to the manufacturer, then repair it,
then send it back again.
This is all time, these are all additional difficulties that the client absolutely does not need,
and they should not worry about it at the competent level of the service.
Therefore, our clients really liked it.
Thus, they were insured from such failures that would involve the client's disloyalty.
This helped us to enter the market very quickly.
In just 4 months, we have formed a system of distributors in the number of 42 companies
that agreed to work under these conditions, and our products entered the market very quickly.
This was our defense against competition, our competitive advantage.
The next point, the next criteria are advertising opportunities of companies in the segment.
It seems, where and what product cannot be advertised now?
Everything is advertised, there are many channels,
you can tell about your product here, but it is a deceptive idea.
There are products that are difficult to advertise.
I will give an example.
A company that produces industrial equipment for the production of food products.
For example, equipment for the production of drinks, or equipment for the production of milk, and so on.
This equipment…
Actually, the company's director asked me with such a request.
I cannot advertise my product. Where can I do it?
Well, of course, standard industrial equipment is good for advertising in the industry press,
in industry magazines, at industry exhibitions, at conferences, the most effective.
What did she tell me?
I did it all, but because of these sources, I did not receive a single order at all.
That is, the money goes in vain.
Of course, it is also important, but it does not justify the costs of promotion.
There must be efficiency in any case.
What did we do? We began to interview customers, buyers of companies.
Where do you get the information when you purchase a particular equipment?
What for?
We received obvious answers, obvious later, when we learned about them.
Of course, at first we just did not guess about it.
We were told that we consulted with colleagues in the workshop.
We simply asked colleagues who had already purchased equipment,
where they had purchased it, how it was serviced, how it was installed,
whether all the technologies worked.
And, in general, the answer was clear.
You just need to take the recommendations of customers who have already purchased equipment,
installed it and are being serviced.
This is what the director of this company did.
And the costs of promotion were reduced several times and became more effective.
Because she took the recommendations of companies that had already worked with her,
the recommendations of their clients, and sent them with a commercial offer in a mail mail.
And then she called and clarified the further conditions.
It worked very well, because the recommendations of colleagues mean a lot for specialists.
So, be careful when approaching advertising channels.
You do not need to spend a lot of money, you need to spend it effectively.
The next point is the possibility of service in the segment.
If you can provide a service, it is very important, it is a big plus for you.
If you can't do it, competitors will do it.
Especially foreign companies that are in the service of notary, they do it very well.
We are still learning, we are still young in this area.
I hope we will grow up to be adult people.
So, about the service.
Do you think there is a service for beer, for example?
Yes, there is.
This is chilled beer, because if you want to take a bottle of beer on a hot day,
you are unlikely to take warm beer.
And this is also the manufacturer's concern.
To make cupboards, refrigerators, so that the client can use his products conveniently.
Well, you can give a lot of examples about the service.
But I will say the main thing.
Not a single product is bought without a service now.
Not a single one.
If the client is dissatisfied, he will not come to you anymore.
Even if you have a super high-quality product, you will not sell it anyway.
Because there is another similar one, but with a high-quality service.
So, think about the service.
Although this is a separate big topic for conversation.
The next criterion is the dependence on limiting goods and services.
What is it?
These are goods or services without which your product cannot work.
Here is a simple example.
Let's take printers.
Stream printers that need cartridges.
If these cartridges are not available, your printers will either sell poorly,
or the client, once he finds out that he cannot buy consumables,
will simply no longer buy your printer.
This is an additional assortment.
If you sell the main one, then be kind to think about whether you can provide
the availability of these additional goods or limiting your use.
Another criterion is the technological difficulties of working in the segment.
What is it?
This is a very important parameter, because it helps to understand
whether it is easy to work with your product.
Is it necessary to change the whole technology completely?
Is it necessary to study this additionally and for a long time to apply it in work?
Or in your personal use?
That is, everything should be simple and clear.
I will give an example.
Our company sold a device for the production of dead and living water.
As in the fairy tale, I watered it with dead water, everything came to life.
I watered it with living water, and everything came to life.
There is such a device that carries out the usual chemical process,
electrochemical process, which allows you to get dead and living water.
Where is it used in our life?
Dead water is used for disinfection, as a disinfectant,
in pharmaceutical companies, medical institutions,
in cosmetics companies, in the agricultural industry.
There is a lot of application of this product.
And most importantly, this device is very quickly purified,
does not require additional resources.
Live water is used in all these industries, but for a different purpose.
On the contrary, for the purpose of growth of something.
We used dead water for the stations, medical institutions,
pharmaceutical companies.
How did it happen?
Before, in hospitals and stations,
chlorine was diluted in water, everything was washed, everything was clean.
Accordingly, chlorine smelled.
Chlorine is a very dangerous ingredient for a person.
It accumulates in the respiratory tract, then accumulates in the body,
and is taken out for a very long time.
There used to be such a statistic, when our water was chlorinated,
they said that a person with water eats 3 kilograms of chlorine per year.
Now, different companies are cleaning water in different ways,
but chlorine is gradually being removed.
So, of course, it was necessary to move away from chlorine
in the stations and medical institutions.
People there are already sick, so why do they need additional difficulties in the body?
We developed the following device, which allowed to get this dead water,
wash everything in the same way, but there was no smell, no harmful impurities,
the device was quickly bathed, everything was great.
We developed such a device, offered it to the stationers in the clinic,
installed it, and a month and a half later,
we came to see what happened, how our device works,
what we saw.
We go in quietly, an elderly woman who works as a nurse
comes to her box, pours chlorine there,
collects water and calmly washes the floor.
We think, well, probably the device is broken,
but for some reason they didn't tell us anything.
We come to her and ask,
tell me, why don't you use it? Is it broken?
She says, what are you, God forbid, is it broken?
We say, why don't you use it?
Something is not right, some difficulties.
She explains to us.
When we installed this device, the nurse told me,
this is now your responsibility.
If it breaks, I will deduct from your salary.
She says, my salary is so small that I will live without it for two years,
just work on this device.
Therefore, of course, I am afraid to approach him.
We say, why are you afraid that it will break?
He is very reliable.
What did she tell you?
You know, your device has two buttons, one to turn on, the other to turn off.
I forget everything, and therefore I will not approach him at all.
So, in fact, such a situation was in about 60-70% of medical institutions.
The specifics of the industry,
elderly people mostly work in these positions.
And what did we do?
We reworked the device.
We put one button,
which you could just press once, it was turned on,
and the second time you press it, it is turned off.
We reworked it, we could not even imagine that such a difficulty could occur.
Therefore, when you offer a device in one or another segment,
try to think about how and who will use it.
This is very useful.
So, we have considered all the criteria.
What do we do next?
Next, we evaluate and choose a segment with the highest scores.
That is, those points that turned out to be the highest of all,
we take as target segments,
taking into account the weights, of course.
Therefore, here we immediately focus our work on those target segments,
which are the most interesting.
In the example, which is presented in the workbook,
we consider the market of office furniture and book of trading equipment.
The company produced office furniture in the middle and low price segment.
The competition was very big,
again, the companies were leading the market.
The entry barriers were very large.
Nevertheless, the company worked, but the turnover stagnated,
that is, did not grow.
And the company wanted to develop.
When we conducted research, we found out that the book market is gaining momentum.
And, of course, they need special equipment.
What equipment do they need?
In self-service stores, when you enter, you see bookshelves.
And, accordingly, they are on the level of about a meter, and up to the floor.
So, they have several types of books.
The shelves were designed in such a way
that each shelf had its own angle of inclination,
so that you could see everything from above and below,
you could see the whole shelf.
This is a special design,
that is, these are not just straight shelves, and so on.
This design was patented,
and, accordingly, it was offered to book networks.
When the assessment was conducted,
we were just considering which segment would be most interesting for sale.
We were considering the following segments.
Those that are presented in your workbook on the slide.
This is office furniture.
Small enterprises, medium enterprises, budget organizations.
And book sales equipment.
These are book networks, these are separate stores,
these are archives and libraries.
Of course, the archives and libraries are budget organizations.
Nevertheless, it was very interesting to offer them this product.
What did we do next?
When we chose the target segments,
then we looked at the consumer characteristics of each segment, their importance.
That is, we looked at what we need to base our commercial offer on
when we offer a product to our client.
The slide shows two options.
On office furniture, one segment is medium enterprises,
and on book sales equipment, these are book networks.
If you look, you will see a very big difference.
In the first place, in both segments, of course, there was a price offer, a discount price,
since they are the most important for each segment.
In the second place, opinions have already been divided.
For office furniture, it was the terms of execution,
and for book sales equipment, it was the design.
That is, it was necessary to have a very good look,
so that the network was in a single design, in a single designer style.
And, of course, this feature took second place.
In the third place, in office furniture, there was the quality of production.
And book sales equipment has a service package.
What did the service package include?
It is the installation of equipment under the key.
The shop owner gives the territory completely,
and the company first designs the equipment,
then manufactures, then installs, and then serves.
This was the only interesting thing about the network supermarket.
Why? Because book stores open further and further,
and this company can further install this equipment in a single style.
The service package took the third place.
And so on.
You will see the difference between these consumer characteristics.
I want to focus your attention on the fact that on the basis of these characteristics
commercial offers are formed,
that is, the most important ones are taken, and emphasis is placed on them.
In your workbook, the options for commercial offers
based on the segmentation for office furniture,
everything is divided there.
There are commercial offers for the office furniture,
there are options for commercial offers for all segments,
and also the characteristics that are important for each segment are divided.
Medium enterprises, small enterprises, private individuals and budget organizations.
When you look at the example, you will see how convenient it is.
Such a table is a checkmark for commercial units.
Yes, they are competent, smart, successful and can well present their product.
But such a table will not hurt them anyway.
Because in the form of advantages that can be discussed in negotiations,
they are more successful in holding them.
This helps them a lot.
Negotiations are in progress, something is forgotten,
you can look and make another offer and give another advantage,
which a person will not forget, having such a checkmark at hand.
Therefore, we highly recommend it.
When we form a commercial offer,
we need not only the advantages of the product, but also the amount of discount, right?
Because our intermediaries rarely work without a discount.
I want to give you an example, a table developed by the academician Igor Lipsets,
who presented this table in his book.
It is very convenient to work with it, it helps to determine what discount you can give
and how much you need to increase the volume of sales so that the amount of profit does not decrease,
but remains at the same level.
You can find this table in your workbook,
and it will help you a lot in determining discounts and forming a commercial offer.
Well, this is how we formed a commercial offer,
made it for our clients and started working.
But in order to understand how effectively we work,
of course, you need to regularly evaluate the client's profitability.
In your workbook, you have a table with expenses,
which must be taken into account when evaluating the client's profitability,
and a method of how to do this is described.
And now we will consider the situation in standard companies,
which usually happens, and see why it is necessary to evaluate this profitability.
In front of you, on the slide, there is a graph,
which shows the volume of sales of certain categories of clients.
Standardly, we have always been like this.
According to the Pareto rule, we evaluated the volume of sales.
The rule of Pareto is 80% of the sales volume is made by 20% of your clients.
So, we always thought so.
But in fact, we were holding on to our golden 20%,
because they made the main turnover, and of course we depend on them.
So, what I would like to say.
Now we have conducted an analysis of 500 companies and deduced the following dependence.
Not only the rule of Pareto is involved in the assessment of profitability.
Let's consider the method of assessing the client's profitability.
When we collect and analyze all our clients, we get the following picture.
10% of the largest clients make 125% loss.
Why does this happen?
Because large clients take large shares and demand large discounts,
because we depend on them, and in fact we do not earn on them.
And also, taking into account the costs of delivery, service, advertising support,
when we calculate all this, we get a loss.
This does not mean that we should give up on these clients.
We should also make a turnover at the expense of some large clients.
Naturally, we will not give up, but it is necessary to know how to manage.
Therefore, calculate what your largest clients give you.
Then 20% of clients, which are average,
they are not the largest, but not the smallest.
It is the average that is the most profitable for us.
They give 225% of the profit, which, of course, compensates for the costs of our large clients,
but nevertheless allows us to understand who needs to be concentrated more and with whom,
how to work.
And the other 70% of clients work at the level of profitability.
They do not give you a special profit, maybe a small one, and do not cause you to lose money.
This is such an interesting statistic, collected by scientists,
who have analyzed more than 500 enterprises operating on the market, successful enterprises.
Therefore, I recommend you to calculate, as I said, the calculation method presented in the workbook.
The most important thing, of course, is the need and availability of a management account,
so that you can divide your costs for each client, divide.
So, we will continue to consider the technology of creating a home network
and see how to choose regions for expansion,
in order to determine where we are interested in working, and where not so much.
Segmentation is one type of choice, and, accordingly, the choice of determining the attractiveness and potential of the region
is another method that allows you to understand not only how huge the market potential is,
but also how well it develops.
From two points of view, the assessment system will be matrix.
The slide shows an example of the assessment of the attractiveness of the region on the example of the elite alcohol market.
Why am I focusing on this? Because for each market, the criteria will be different.
The main principle is the following.
The first is the potential of the region, this is the volume of this market at the moment,
how big it is, how it suits you.
And the second part of the assessment is attractiveness, how much it is actively developing,
because this is the future, this is the development of your company.
We choose criteria for the assessment of the region.
Let's look at the example of the elite alcohol market.
What criteria did we take to determine the potential?
The first is the volume of the elite alcohol market.
The second is the development of the level of retail networks in the region.
Why is this important to us?
The more retail networks, the more volume we can pump into this region.
The next is the dynamics of consumption of elite alcohol,
that is, how the market grows, how often people buy elite products.
And the next point is the level of the payment capacity of the population.
Why is this important?
The market may be potentially large, but if people do not have the funds to buy products,
the market may not be very interesting for us.
The next criteria is attractiveness, that is, how well the market will develop.
The first point is the number of people who are older than 18 years.
Why? Because alcohol can be consumed only after the age of 18.
Therefore, for us, of course, this parameter is very interesting.
The next point is foreign investment in the region.
Why is this important to us?
A very interesting point for the elite alcohol market.
It has a direct relationship to development.
As soon as we see an increase in investment,
we see that a very good situation is developing in the region.
The better the market develops, the more income the population grows,
the more they allow themselves pleasant things.
The next point is the dynamics of the development of the region itself,
the dynamics of the development of its retail product turnover,
that is, how it grows.
Look, for comparison, the Moscow market and the Nizhny Novgorod market.
Two cities that are very different in themselves.
Why? The Moscow market is potentially very large.
There are a lot of customers who can buy this product.
But its development dynamics are already very low compared to the dynamics of development in Nizhny Novgorod.
I will give you some figures.
The turnover of Moscow grows by 5-6% per year,
and the turnover of Nizhny Novgorod grows by 30-35% per year.
Look at the difference.
Why is this important to us?
Because it is easier to enter the developing market,
it is easier to develop there and it is easier to get up.
There is not such a high level of competition.
That is why we assess the attractiveness of the region from two points of view.
The potential can be compared with operational activity,
and the attractiveness with strategic.
We look at how we can develop in this region.
The next point is the level of competition.
Of course, we also assess the level of competition.
Expert assessment is carried out here.
Commercial and marketing departments participate in expert assessment.
These are the departments that are somehow connected with the market.
The assessment is given from 1 to 9.
Then the weight coefficients are set.
Here, attention, the weight coefficient for the potential of the region should be equal to 1.
And the weight coefficient for the attractiveness of the region should be equal to 1.
Then you multiply the numbers, calculate the average arithmetic and get the result.
The slide shows the result of the assessment of the regions.
There are 9 squares in which certain regions got after the assessment.
Naturally, the squares under the number 1, 2, 3, 4 are the most attractive for work.
And you need to start with the first one.
Why? Because there is a good average potential, but the development is much higher.
The second square, where the potential is high and the level of development is high,
but the level of competition is quite high, so it is a little more difficult to get there.
Then there is the third square, where the potential is high, but the level of development is average.
And the fourth square, where both assessments were obtained at an average level, from 3 to 6 points.
That is, you can get there, but this is most likely a perspective, work for the perspective.
That is, at the moment you will not make big turns there.
But in the future, this is possible in a very promising market for sales.
Thus, the methodology helps to assess the attractiveness of certain regions,
not only from the point of view of the current profit, but also from the point of view of the company's development in the future.
Let's look at the stages of distribution development.
We have already considered that depending on the life cycle of the product,
the distribution develops in different ways, it has its stages.
Now we will look at some features that companies need to pay attention to when developing a distribution system.
The development system has three main stages.
What are they characterized by?
The first stage is when the company has just entered the market,
the company itself, not the product, but the company, and begins to sell.
How does it behave?
It gains a large range because it has no other competitive advantages,
and begins to recruit sales representatives or sales managers who offer this product on the market.
They have a very large price list, as a rule, and they just sell.
Accordingly, the success of the company depends only on the sales managers themselves.
They sold well, the company feels good.
They could not work, which means it did not work.
This is the very first stage of the company's development.
It inevitably has a place to be, and it is simply impossible to immediately jump to the third stage.
Therefore, for some time the company works like this,
masters the market, understands its specifics.
It is advisable not to stay at this stage for a long time,
because it is not the most effective, not the most attractive.
The second stage of development begins when the company sets itself a task not only in terms of sales volume,
but in terms of sales volume, in terms of the top range.
The company often sharply reduces the range,
because it understands that the sales manager cannot focus on the entire range of the company.
This is impossible and ineffective.
Usually, the range is reduced, and moreover, the top range is selected, which is best sold.
Tasks are set for it, and, accordingly, the sales manager already has two tasks in terms of sales volume.
On the contrary, and in terms of sales volume, the top range.
Yes, this is a good stage, the second stage is the development of the company.
Nevertheless, it has both advantages and disadvantages.
The first advantage is the speed.
You can create such a system very quickly.
The second advantage is flexibility.
It was not possible to work with one distributor, with the second, and the third is the operability.
You can contact a particular company very quickly, solve issues, and so on.
But, in fact, this stage has a lot of disadvantages.
Let's look at them.
The first disadvantage is high competition among manufacturers.
What we have already discussed today.
Each dealer or distributor has many manufacturers.
And inside, dealers or distributors compete with each other.
Well, imagine, one company gives funds for promotion, the second, the third, the fifteenth,
and the dealer no longer knows what to do.
He looks where it is more profitable, and sells.
And he is not particularly interested.
It is clear that your assortment is top-notch, so your task is to focus on your assortment.
To stand out among the many manufacturers that supply this product to him.
The next disadvantage is the dependence on the leaders of the trading representatives.
What is it?
In any company there are people who know how to sell well.
They mostly take a good client base, work at interest rates.
They are not very interested in the output of a new product, because they earn well on the existing one.
They have established relations and work very well with them.
What is the disadvantage for the company?
They sell well.
The disadvantage is that you depend on them.
If only this sales manager decides to leave your company, God forbid, the competitor,
then you think you have lost this client.
This is what happened to us when we changed the distribution system.
Some managers who worked in the catering segment,
it is the most difficult to establish relations there,
and we lost about 30% of the client base.
It was a very bad result.
We had to restore everything again.
Therefore, special attention should be paid to this.
How to avoid the situation?
Give an assistant.
Let the second assistant, a young manager, go and learn together with this leader.
This way he will gain experience and a base,
and establish relations with your key clients.
The drain of regional products is also a big disadvantage.
Why?
You have made a sales system,
you have two or three distributors,
they start to compete with each other.
They gain a large volume,
at large discounts,
then they cannot sell it,
and they start to sell it at low prices in the regions.
This is very bad,
because they create additional competition for those who work there.
This, of course, must be avoided.
How?
Structuring the sales system clearly
and trying not to make price changes.
It is difficult to control,
but if possible, you need to try to do it.
The next disadvantage is the dependence on the human factor.
This point often intersects with the leaders of the trading representatives.
You actually depend on them,
depend on the person.
And you need to create a system that will not depend on the person,
or will not depend on the maximum,
as little as possible.
Then your system will work like a clock.
That is why it goes to the third stage of distribution development.
What is this third stage?
When we set ourselves other tasks,
we set ourselves tasks for the volume of sales,
for the top range,
and also a plan for the marginal income.
Why is this important?
Imagine you set a task for your regional managers.
Here is the volume of sales, here is the top range.
You have to sell it.
He sells.
He tries to give more discounts to get more volume.
Conduct some additional programs.
Is it profitable for the company?
Most likely not.
Because the marginal income is eaten up by these programs,
by these budgets, by these discounts.
Why does this happen?
Because your manager is motivated
not to earn money,
but only to increase the volume of sales.
That is why when the company goes to the third stage
and thinks about the marginal income,
the third stage of development begins.
A more serious, more stable, more competent.
Why is it important to set a task for the volume of sales?
Now we will look at the method of forming the volume of sales
or sales forecast.
This is one of the key issues
when forming a household network
and, accordingly, when optimizing it.
When we set a task for the volume of sales,
of course, we want the volume to be greater.
Let's look at the method
developed by Jean-Jacques Lambin
to optimize the company's turnover.
How can it be increased?
At what steps can we increase the volume of sales?
Let's go through the ladder,
which is presented on the slide.
The first thing we can do
is to strengthen the company's position.
We think that everything is fine in the company.
We have a sales department,
we have a sufficient number of managers,
they are qualified,
they work competently,
their functions are not duplicated.
Believe me, such a perfect situation is very rare.
Nevertheless, optimization in this area
allows to increase the company's turnover
up to 42%.
This is only in my practice,
maybe somewhere there is more.
I will give an example
of how the sales organization works
among managers in commercial departments.
One of the companies produced plastic windows.
The profiles for plastic windows were collected and sold.
The company was organized by a person
who worked before in a research institute.
He brought a team of his colleagues,
who successfully found the equipment,
installed it, launched the technology,
organized production.
They were great specialists in this.
But as soon as the question of sales arose,
the question of the product was raised.
It was 8 years ago.
It was the most active development
of this market, the plastic window market.
There were not so many competitors then.
But the manager asked a question,
why is it not being sold?
They invited a consultant.
The consultant looked at the company,
looked at how people work,
and said,
you just don't have competent sales managers.
He said, how come?
There are guys, competent, with a scientific degree,
and so on.
What about them?
They can't sell.
What was the answer?
Of course not.
Sales should be done professionally
by completely different people.
They should be ambitious,
purposeful.
And a scientific degree is not necessary here.
The main thing is that he can
present the product and sell it competently.
And this is actually a talent needed.
Or at least skills.
Very good skills.
That's why the product was not sold.
What did the consultant advise?
To hire sales managers.
They found three people,
three young people,
developed a good motivation system
that really motivated them,
and launched them into the field.
What is it called?
The result was stunning.
In three months,
so many orders were collected
that the production stopped doing well.
Of course,
the company bought additional equipment,
and now it is one of the leaders
in the North-West region
in the production of plastic windows.
Only optimization in the commercial department
allowed to achieve such great results.
That's why you need to approach
the sales organization very competently.
If everything is great there,
and there is nothing to improve,
then we move on.
We attack competitors.
You can attack competitors in different ways.
You can produce a duplicate product,
you can lower prices,
you can fix all kinds of obstacles,
launch rumors.
There are many ways to fight competitors.
There is one but.
If you are a strong company in the market,
you can afford this luxury of fighting competitors.
If your company is not so strong,
not so large at the moment,
it is better not to get involved in this fight.
Because competitors will crush you
if they are stronger than you.
Therefore,
be careful with competitors.
If you are already fighting with competitors,
or you don't need it,
we move on to the next step.
We take the next step.
It is to stimulate the application.
That is,
try to find niches
where you can still apply your product.
Or try to make it
used more often.
Let's remember a shampoo.
A regular shampoo that we wash our hair with.
Ten years ago
it was said
that
you need to wash your hair
once a week.
Why?
Because there was a shortage of products.
What is written on the bottle
with shampoo today?
For everyday use.
This is just to stimulate the application.
Remember the ad.
Chewing gum.
A girl puts two pillows in her mouth,
not one.
This is also to stimulate the application.
And so
you need to look for some moments
that will make you buy your product more often.
Or change it more often.
As it happens on the market
of the same mobile phones
that we talked about today.
New functions are added
and we buy new and new models.
We are forced to do it.
You can make a connection
with a regular model.
Good.
If you found such a function
or an additional market,
you have already increased
your sales volume.
But there are other options.
The next step is to expand the sales.
For example, we worked
in five regions
or in ten regions.
Now we can expand
to additional regions.
Of course, this will cost.
But it will give an additional turnover.
Because additional region means
additional sales.
And one more thing.
This is to add a range of goods.
If you introduce a new product in the range,
it automatically increases
the sales volume of your product.
These are the moments you can take into account
when forming a sales forecast
and when setting the task
to increase the turnover.
Well, I'll tell you
how to assess the sales volume,
calculate it correctly
and correctly
to do it with minimal error.
The first thing we will consider
is the Ansofa matrix.
This is a matrix of strategic planning.
Strategic planning will tell you
about it in the course.
I would like to focus
on the practical application of this matrix
for the accuracy of the sales forecast.
This is what we do
in our company today.
How can it be applied?
I'll briefly remind you
what Ansofa matrix is.
Ansofa matrix is divided into fields.
This is the old market – the old product.
And the new market – the new product.
Accordingly, there is a strategy
to work on this product
or on this segment
to cross these fields.
The old market – the old product.
We just penetrate the market deeper,
increase the turnover
and increase the sales volume.
We increase the turnover
of existing clients
for the existing product.
If we choose the old market – the new product,
it means that we offer
the existing client a new product.
This strategy is called product development.
If we sell the old product
on the new market,
we are looking for new clients
for the existing assortment.
This is called market development.
If we sell new products on the new market,
this is a diversification strategy.
We change everything.
We change the product, we change the market.
This is the most risky strategy.
But sometimes,
if it works,
it can be the most profitable.
How to apply this matrix
to sell the product?
We do it as follows.
We divide our clients
on the new clients
with whom we plan to sign the contract
and on the existing ones.
Then we choose the key clients
according to the rules of Pareto.
These are the main clients
that make the main turnover.
Then we ask our commercial managers
to predict the sales
of the existing clients.
Then they predict
how they will offer
our new product
to the existing clients
and how they will sell it.
Of course,
we need to have additional negotiations.
But we don't have many clients.
We only choose the key ones.
The next step
is to consider
whether they can offer
our existing products
to the new potential clients.
They also make a sales forecast.
We have statistics
for the previous clients.
We look at how they bought the product,
what was the increase in turnover.
We compare
similar regions and similar clients.
It helps us to build a figure.
When we have diversification
of new products and new clients,
it is actually an intuition.
The manager
determines
how much he can sell
the product to the new clients.
Then we add
the figures to this matrix
and multiply it
by the percentage of the new product
that was presented on your slide.
We multiply the percentage
of the new product by 95%.
There can be 5% error,
although managers
are very good at
determining the sales volume
for the key clients.
When we buy a new product
from the old clients,
we take the coefficient 65.
60 or 70,
we take the average one, 65.
We get the same figure.
We reduce the figure by 3-5%.
The next step is
to buy the old product from the new clients.
The accuracy of the forecast is reduced
because we haven't worked with these clients yet.
Nevertheless,
we multiply this figure by 45%.
We subtract 55%.
New clients, new products
have an accuracy
of 10-15%.
The numbers we get
form the total sales volume.
I want to say
that this method works very well
and helps to reduce
the probability of error.
Of course,
the commercial structures
are involved in this forecast.
It helps them to assess
the prospects of working
with certain clients.
We have been using this method
for 3 years
and it helps us
to implement the tasks.
Let's move on
and consider
the following table.
When we get
such a sales forecast,
it may not coincide
with the tasks set by the management.
The management always wants more.
Now we have to conduct
a gap analysis.
When we have to see
how we can increase
the sales volume,
we have recently discussed
the method of increasing
the sales volume.
We can increase it
by combining
two methods
of Ansoff
and Jean-Jacques Lambin.
By combining
these two methods
we can get
and understand
what we can get
from the sales forecast.
This topic
is discussed in detail
in the workbook.
Please, pay special attention to it.
As a result,
after we conducted
the gap analysis
and understood
how we can increase
our sales volume,
we can get
such a table.
It is a real example
of how we can increase
the sales volume
by 160 million dollars.
We understood
how much we can
achieve
and then added
and understood
how we can increase
the sales volume
by 160 million dollars.
The first thing we noticed
was the increase
in sales
volume.
We did not set such a goal.
We clearly defined that
we will grow due to the growth of the market.
The next thing we noticed
was the increase in sales volume
due to the marketing activity
and due to the growth
of the distribution level.
We expand the market
and promote our product
in this market.
We get additional sales volume.
The next thing
is the introduction of new positions.
The new assortment of products
that we planned to introduce
took a certain turn,
which we calculated and set as a goal.
The next thing is the exit
to the new market
of other countries.
We set such a goal
and, accordingly,
we reached the number
set by the manager.
The goals can be achieved
not only by the sales volume,
but also by the financial goals.
Here is an example
of the financial goals.
We divided the assortment
into three groups.
The first group means
maximization of profits in segments.
The main brands of companies,
well-known trading brands,
which allow to earn
a large margin income,
are included.
The second group is the image products.
Without them,
they are a kind of a locomotive
when entering
certain trading points or clients.
Although we do not earn
much money on them,
we have allocated them to a separate group.
The third group is a product
that takes its turn.
It has a huge turn,
but a small margin income.
We clearly understood where we earn profit
and where we take a turn.
Such a structure is very important
in order to develop the budget
and to understand
where to direct
communication influence,
where to promote the product.
It is quite clear that
in the segment
with a large turnover
we carried out only
supportive communication,
and on the other hand,
we gave the largest
advertising influence on brands.
This justified itself,
because the profit there is large.
The fourth group is the development
of a sales forecast,
which is applicable not only
to existing products,
but even to the development
of a sales forecast of a new product.
I want to say that this method
was developed in 2000.
The method is a compilation
of two methods of quality assessment.
These methods are known,
but their combination
gives the smallest error
when calculating the forecast.
I will give an example
of split systems
with which we started
the development of this technique.
The first thing to do
is to analyze the demand
and supply on the market.
This is the work of marketologists
who have to show
which market is the most promising,
where to go,
where the largest sales volume
can be,
what are the trends of development,
and how interesting it is to work there.
The next step is to select
the target segments.
We have just considered the method
of selecting the target segments.
We select them and make a sales forecast
only for the target segments.
We do not need a sales forecast
for the general market,
because we will promote the product
only for the target segments.
Everything else will be additional sales.
It will be those 20%
that do not make up the main turnover of the company.
The next thing to do
is to select the calculation methods.
We have made a compilation
of even three methods,
but the first method, the normative calculation,
did not show itself well
in this situation.
I will explain why.
Statistical methods work very well
in stable markets.
When it is clear how much and what will be consumed,
what time and what price,
then it is easy to calculate.
You can calculate the consumption of bread,
milk, because it is a product
that will not go somewhere.
There will be a small error.
But the products on the market
that are highly competitive
and, moreover,
unstable situation,
constantly changing,
such a method does not suit.
I will give an example.
Once we came to a conference.
One professor of the University of St. Petersburg
developed a wonderful method
of trend assessment of sales forecast.
He presented it
and said that the accuracy
of his method
is only 5% error.
It was perfect.
We just introduced a new product
to the market, and we were very interested
in this method, because we needed
to predict the sales as accurately as possible.
We were ready to buy this method.
We approached him
and asked what features
are present in the application of this method.
He told us that everything is fine,
everything is fine, it will work.
But one condition.
In order for this method to work,
you must enter the input data
for sales
for the previous 50 years
per month.
Can you imagine where such data
from our market, which has just been formed,
come from? We do not have so much time.
He says,
then the error will be greater.
For example, 40 to 60.
We can predict without any method.
Therefore, of course,
mathematical models are applicable,
but it all depends on the input data
that you entered.
And you still enter it yourself,
it turns out to be of high quality.
That is why only high-quality estimates
work on new markets, on unstable ones.
They give less error,
more competent people
give information about how to assess
the sales forecast.
Well, two more methods that we used
as a result.
What is this method?
We chose three reference groups.
The first is the company management,
the second is sales managers,
and the third is our clients,
who are available.
And, accordingly, we asked them a question.
Please predict the sales volume
of split systems
for the next year
and
the total market volume.
Accordingly,
the management gave us its figure,
that is, the vision
that the managers had.
The management
sets up this process
and they are the main marketologists.
Therefore,
it is rare to put
unreasonable numbers.
People who manage the process
usually know what they are doing.
The second point is
our sales managers.
They predicted,
of course, their sales forecast was less,
but we got the figure.
The third group is our clients,
who also gave us the figure.
So, you know what an interesting situation we got.
The difference in the forecast was 12.5%.
The top were managers.
The lowest forecast
was given by sales managers.
And approximately in the middle,
but not exactly in the middle,
but 5% of the forecast
was given by clients.
And the difference between clients
and sales managers
was 12.5%.
We did not stop at the reached number.
We decided to double-check our figures
and used the Delphi method.
The Delphi method is a very interesting method,
when experts are invited
to assess the sales forecast.
Accordingly, we chose experts
who have been working on the market for a long time,
who are really the leaders of the industry.
There were 5 of them.
We asked them the same question.
Please predict the volume of sales
of the industry by split systems
and the volume of sales of our company.
The characteristics of the systems
were presented to them.
Each expert predicted the figures
separately from each other.
Then they sent it to us.
We compared all the figures
and saw that there was a big difference
between the predicted figures.
What did we do next?
We put all the figures together
into a single document
and sent it to each expert.
What was the purpose of this?
I read it and thought
that I did not take into account
the fact that the second expert
was right and I would agree
that the figures should be changed
in a positive or negative way.
Someone said the opposite.
I do not agree with this.
I am not going to change my figure.
Thus, we need to make
so many visits to the experts
until the difference
between their figures
is not visible
and the difference
between their figures
is not more than 10%.
Then we can rely on this information.
Thus, we got a very good result
in two visits.
What was surprising
was that the figures of the experts
matched the market's
customer's assessment.
We took this figure
for our sales forecast.
We got a very good result.
I want to say that
when we summed up the results
after a year,
we made a mistake of 5%.
Our managers sold
5% more.
This was a very good result.
The slides show
the data
on the optimal pessimistic
and optimistic forecast.
We used all three figures.
The smallest figure was
the pessimistic sales forecast
which was known only by the manager.
He could count on this
in the smallest possible way.
We took the average forecast
for the optimal one
and put it in the sales forecast.
The optimistic forecast
was a bar
for additional bonuses.
We developed
a motivation system
to make the managers
want to go up
to the optimistic forecast.
Thus, they sold
more than we planned.
This gave us a good result.
I recommend you to use
the methods we discussed
in the workbook.
Everything is described in detail.
The next part of the course
is about the efficiency
of the home network.
It is not enough
to build a home network.
You need to understand
how it works,
whether it is effective
or not.
You need to understand
how it works,
whether it is effective
or not.
You need to understand
how it works,
whether it is effective
or not.
It is one of the key factors
of your company's success.
In Russian practice,
there is a saying
that there is no control,
no work.
Or you can say
that the order of management
is a reason for reflection.
If you don't control,
you will never see results.
Let's look at this topic.
Let's look at
the real mistakes
and problems
in building relationships
with intermediaries.
What do we not take into account
when building relationships?
The first mistake
is that we did not evaluate
the market opportunities adequately.
It is a mistake of all marketologists
and businessmen.
We did not have time
or we decided that we already knew everything.
Why should we spend additional funds
and time to calculate?
We did not calculate.
Our intermediary cannot simply
make the volume that we demand from him.
He is right about this.
The market is a market.
It dictates its own rules.
The next mistake is that
we used the same methods
that foreign partners
use in their markets.
We do not take into account
the losses and losses for companies.
Because the methods and steps
that we use do not give us
the result that we want.
One more thing.
We did not take into account
the legal features of the market.
There are many of them in every republic
in our huge country.
Every republic has its own legislation.
There are its own agencies
that determine the rules of trade
with certain goods.
I will give you an example
from the alcohol market.
In Krasnodar Krai
our company has branches.
But we cannot sell
a lot of elite alcohol there
because the governor of Krasnodar Krai
introduced a quota
for importation of products.
He supports his producers.
Probably, from the point of view of the Krai,
this is right.
Nevertheless, we could sell more.
But the legislative restrictions
do not allow us to do so.
We do not want to increase the volume of sales.
We do not plan to do so.
It will not help us.
We should also take into account
the main problems
between the producer and the distributor.
What is special here?
What should we take into account?
We should consider
whether we can sell directly
to the region where our distributor works.
This process must be discussed.
Because if we sell directly
to the region,
we will interfere with the distribution
of our products.
What should he do?
He will just sell the products
at low prices,
spoiling the market.
We will not be able to sell them.
The next point
is to understand
whether we have one exclusive distributor
or a pool of distributors.
There are several of them.
The main thing is
to understand the problems.
As I said, you cannot keep the problems
in secret. If you do not solve them,
they will be solved by themselves
and most often not in your favor.
Another point
that I would like to point out
is that the market of wholesale companies
is leaving.
In the future,
logistics operators,
manufacturers and networks
will remain.
This is the future.
The distributors who work in this market
understand this perfectly
and begin to choose their future activities.
Some go into logistics,
and some begin to create their own brands.
If your distributor creates
his own brands and sells your products,
it is not a fact that he will pay
enough attention to your products
in order to actively promote it.
Please take this into account.
I would like to
touch a little on the issue
of division of functions
between enterprises and intermediaries.
It is necessary to clearly divide
the functions.
In the workbook, you have an example
of the division of functions
between the enterprise, the manufacturer
of cars and the car dealers.
When there are suppliers of components,
there is a manufacturer of cars,
there is a distributor,
several dealers come from him,
then there are agents who offer
the product and the consumer himself.
So, between the manufacturer,
it is necessary to clearly specify the functions.
Who is responsible for what?
So that there is no duplication,
so that there is no overshooting of functions.
This is very important for a clear work
and for a clear interaction.
Who is engaged in the supply of components?
Who is engaged in the registration of documents?
Who is engaged in transport?
Who is engaged in logistics?
Who is engaged in warehouses?
Who is engaged in delivery to the end customer?
Who is engaged in self-insurance?
When you have built this system clearly,
everything becomes clear to everyone.
When it is not there or it is not registered,
everyone does what he thinks is necessary.
And so your company has no order,
no optimization of resources.
Let's touch a little on household logistics,
because it plays one of the leading roles
in the formation of the household network.
Our country is large,
and logistics one way or another
affects the price of our products.
The further we deliver the goods,
the more our products cost,
because these expenses
are often in the cost of production.
In this regard,
I recommend you pay attention
to the optimization of the stock,
because you do not need
to store a lot of products
in your company,
in your warehouses,
because it distracts resources,
additional money, time,
labor, which, again,
are part of the cost of production.
Or you can store a lot of goods
in the warehouse,
and this will affect the cost of production.
Or the cost increases,
which is not very good for the market,
or the profit decreases.
Companies lose money again,
so it is necessary to clearly consider
every point where you can
optimize your household logistics.
Three main groups are
the content of the stock,
the implementation of the stock,
and the third is the loss as a result.
Either they did not deliver,
or they stole, or they lost.
There are different reasons,
respectively, it happens.
You have a complete list of
warehouse expenses in your notebook,
which must be taken into account
when doing household activities.
And also a formula is given
by which you can calculate
the optimal stock supply,
the norm, and it is constantly
adhered to.
That is, the company should be a person
who constantly controls
every normative stock.
And the fourth is the lack of production.
Because imagine,
you spent money on promotion,
you brought this product to the market,
your dealers or distributors
actively got to work,
and suddenly the supply of the product
is again out of the shelves.
These are additional costs again.
This is all again from the beginning,
and even more difficult,
because they have already seen
a problem with you at work.
That is why I recommend you
to use a formula that would help
to assess the critical stock of your product
in your warehouse
and optimize your warehouse expenses.
I would like to see
how you can assess
the effectiveness of the household network.
We have already discussed
that you can create,
you can work,
but you must assess.
And not only financially.
We have already considered the financial formula,
but not only finances play a role in our lives.
Here you are offered a method
of multi-criteria analysis
of the household network options.
And on the slide you see
the criteria by which the assessment is made.
The first criteria is the correspondence
of channels with the demand of consumers.
That is,
how comfortable and convenient it is
to buy products in those channels
by which you distribute it.
The next point is the management of channels.
How competently
you can control the operation of these channels.
Control and manage.
Because if there is no control,
you can't manage at all.
How accessible it is to you.
How actively your intermediary
provides information to you.
The next point is the level of competition
for the ability to work with this channel.
How strong are the competitive positions?
How do they oppose you as a competitor?
How much money do you need
to invest to form
and work there
with this household network?
The next point is the perspective of channels.
Long-term trends.
How well this channel is developing.
Let's look at the example of retail networks
that are now very actively developing.
And by the development of the Western market
we see that they will also develop
even more.
And let's look at the attractiveness
of small pavilions.
We know that a law has recently been passed
that the number of pavilions
will sharply decrease
because they interfere with traffic on the streets,
it is difficult to control them, and so on.
And we see that the attractiveness of channels
is completely different.
Thus, we took four main criteria
that help us determine
the prospectivity of the household network,
the attractiveness of working with it.
We evaluate this on a 10-point scale.
Then we look at the final score,
the average arithmetic score.
And here we add the financial assessment
according to the formula that was given earlier.
And we get
a matrix assessment.
This is a matrix
that we can use
to determine
which channel is the most optimal
for us.
And of course, this is the first square.
If your channels are selected,
these are the most optimal channels for work.
They suit you
both in terms of profitability
and attractiveness.
They are the most interesting.
In the second place is the standard channel.
Why? Because the level of profitability
for the company is a very important criterion.
The company should also live today.
Not only develop.
If today there are no funds,
tomorrow there will be nothing.
Therefore, the standard channel
is number two.
These two channels are the intermediaries,
the channels that are key for you.
And you should work
very actively with them.
But the potential channel
is probably aimed at development.
If you do not spend
a lot of resources
for its development,
continue to develop.
Do not leave this channel,
because there is probably your future.
But another channel,
another square
called the dubious channel,
of course, you need to get rid
of these intermediaries.
It is better not to leave them in your portfolio.
But if, of course, they are not
politically significant for you,
then, probably,
you will not go anywhere.
At least you will know that
this is not a profitable channel.
We leave it for a reason.
For example, for politics.
We need it.
But if you evaluate from the point of view
of economic development,
then it is absolutely not interesting for you.
How else can you control
distribution channels?
Of course, regular checks and accountability.
It is necessary to develop forms
on which intermediaries will constantly report.
that will load your intermediaries
from morning to evening.
They must sell, not write reports.
But you must have
key positions and key information.
What is this key information?
Sales volume, growth dynamics,
number of client bases,
sales of the top assortment.
They can provide you with all this.
Also, the effectiveness of assessment
of the event, which is held,
if it is held at your expense.
Price control.
Although this is the most controversial point.
I will say right away that price control
is probably our future.
While we are very difficult to control it,
we cannot be present in all regions at once.
And the intermediaries use this.
They issue prices that are not
in our policy at all.
And even sometimes the product is repositioned
due to this.
But, unfortunately, we can't do anything here.
I can only advise more detailed control
and price registration in the contract.
Price control on shelves.
If your product is put on the retail network,
then, of course, sometimes
you need to do a retail audit
with the help of third-party companies,
consulting companies,
which will conduct a retail audit
and show the real situation.
How well you are represented
in a particular network or in a particular region.
Of course, the control of the event.
Because if you spend your money,
you must understand how effectively
these funds are spent.
How well they are received by the client.
How well they fulfill their obligations.
How well they work in this market.
Suddenly you need to change your client.
As a result, I want to present you
several methods that allow
to perform this control.
The first is, of course,
the volume of product implementation
on this channel.
You have two tables on the slides
that allow you to evaluate
and analyze the product.
And the second is
that allows you to evaluate and analyze
the volume of sales in the regions,
in the sales channels,
direct channels, distributors,
optics, dealers,
and also in the segments of consumers.
These three analyses
are very important for work,
because they allow you to understand
who is sold and how.
It is very important to build
a strategy for the future,
a sales strategy for your product.
The next point to consider
is the conditions for the calculation
of the sales channel.
I want to say that they should be
optimal for you.
If you are satisfied with the discount
of 10%, the payment deadline
is 45 days, then you can work
as you wish.
The main condition is that
it should not be worse than other
manufacturers, for example.
That is, there should be parity.
The load of production capacities
is mainly related to
production enterprises.
The most important criterion here
is the load of production capacity
at 90%. If your production capacity
is loaded at 90%, your sales channels
are formed optimally.
That is, everything is fine.
The attitude of customers to intermediaries.
We have already talked about this,
that it is necessary to evaluate
at least once a year, to conduct such surveys
on key clients and ask
if they are satisfied, if everything is fine,
if there are any complaints about the work
of intermediaries. This is very important.
The next is the costs of the enterprise organization
and the sales channel.
We have already discussed
that you need to calculate everything,
all costs completely.
And here are the costs for logistics,
for advertising support, for technical,
for service, for business trips,
for bonuses for sales managers.
All commercial expenses
related to this sales channel
must be calculated.
And in order not just to calculate them,
but to assess their effectiveness,
you can apply the formula of profitability.
How is it calculated?
We take the revenue on this channel,
subtract all the costs from the household costs
and divide them by the household costs.
The coefficient of profitability is obtained.
The higher the coefficient of profitability,
the better. If you compare all the channels,
you will see which channels work
the most effectively.
And what are the recommendations
for increasing the effectiveness
of channel operation?
The first is to switch the enterprise
to the orientation of key clients.
Why is this important?
Because we cannot provide everyone
with preferences,
make the same support for everyone,
communicate with everyone the same way.
This is not necessary.
These are additional expenses of the company.
Therefore, choose key clients
and work with them.
Assess their work
and always highlight them
so that they feel it.
Then you will have loyal clients
who will understand
that you are partners with them,
not just a manufacturer
and distributor.
This is the most important thing.
The next point
that can be done
is to search for missed segments.
What can be done here?
See how other manufacturers
distribute their products on the market
or how it is distributed on the market.
For example, climate technology
or thermal technology,
heat fans, heat guns
can be sold to transport enterprises,
construction companies,
to production companies
and other places.
For example,
there is a certain distribution
of the market
by the channels' sales.
Compare the distribution of the market
and yours, where you do not refine,
where you do not sell
your products
and you will see
your niche and potential.
You have examples in your workbook.
The next point
is to increase the efficiency
of the intermediaries.
We do not touch key clients,
we have highlighted them,
but there are standard clients.
How to make them
to become key
and work better?
Maybe change motivation,
maybe add support,
maybe hold more joint events?
You need to think about it.
They do not need loyalty programs
that are aimed at key clients.
Nevertheless,
support is important.
The main thing is to determine the potential.
Can it be increased or not?
If not, leave it as it is.
If it can be increased,
we look at how it can be increased.
The next point is to reduce sales costs.
This is also an increase in the efficiency
of the sales channels.
We look at the numbers
and decide whether we can reduce them.
This is the most important point.
To reduce, you need to calculate.
The fifth point is to ensure
clear division of functions.
We have already talked about it.
I repeat that it is very important
because duplication of functions is excluded
and resources are optimized.
Dear colleagues,
today we have discussed
five main topics
that allow us
to effectively form
our distribution system.
We have discussed the main trends
that exist on the market now.
We have discussed
how the distribution system changes
depending on the market development.
We have discussed the main strategies
and understood
which goods,
which companies
and on which life cycle
a particular strategy is effective.
We have discussed the technology
of network development,
the method of searching for new clients
in the regions and in the industries.
We have discussed how to calculate
profitability and choose the best intermediary.
We have seen two methods
of sales forecasting
that allow to forecast
your household activity
with minimal error.
We have also seen
the methods of assessment,
efficiency and control of intermediaries.
Dear colleagues,
I wish you optimal channels,
successful sales,
high turnover
and, most importantly,
desired profits.
Good luck to you!
All the best! Goodbye!